A)Interpolating point data
We will take field depth measurements for a Lake Arlington in Texas and then create an elevation relief map 
and contours from these measurements.
Required dataset:
2007-12 survey shapefiles for Lake Arlington i.e. Shapefiles.zip
Required plugin:
Interpolation plugin
1.Add two vector layers “Arlington_soundings_2007_stpl83.shp” and
“Boundary2004_550_stpl83.shp” (using shift key we can select both the layers at once).
2.Both the layers are loaded in QGIS. Boundary2004_550_stpl83 represents boundary of lake, uncheck this layer from layer pane.
3.Now we can see the other layer. Here data looks like lines but they are actually series of points that are very close.
4.Zoom in the layer so that we can see points representing readings taken by Depth Sounder at the location
 recorded by DGPS equipment.
5.Select the Identify tool and click on any point. We will see the Identify Results panel on the left with the 
attribute value of the point. Here, the ELEVATION attribute contains the depth of the lake at the location.
 Our task is to create a depth profile and elevation contours, we will use this value as input for the interpolation.
6.Make sure that “Interpolation plugin” is installed and enabled.
7.Click on raster  interpolation  interpolation.
8.In interpolation dialog box, select Arlington_soundings_2007_stpl83 as vector layer in input panel, 
Chose ELEVATION as interpolation attribute, then click on Add button. Change the Cellsize X and Cellsize Y to 5.
 This is the size of each pixel in the output grid. Since our source data is in a projected CRS with Feet-US as units,
 therefore based on our selection, the grid size will be 5 feet. Click on the ... button next to the Output file and name
 the output file as elevation_tin.tif. Check add result to project. Click on Ok (QGIS interpolation
supports Triagulated Irregular Network (TIN) and Inverse Distance Weighting (IDW) methods for interpolation).
9.Now elevation_tin layer is added, if it is not completely visible right click on it and select Zoom to layer.
10.Now we will see the full extent of the created surface. Interpolation does not give accurate results outside the
 collection area. So let’s clip the resulting surface with the lake boundary. Click on raster  extraction  clipper.
11.Select elevation_tin as input file (raster). Give name of output file as elevation_tin_clipped.tif, select mask layer
 as clipping mode and select Boundary2004_550_stpl83 as mask layer. Make sure that load into canvas when finished is checked.
 Then click on Ok.
12.A new raster elevation_tin_clipped will be loaded in QGIS. We will now change style of this layer to show the difference in
 elevations. Click on + sign against elevation_tin layer in layer pane, now we can note the min and max elevation values. 
Double click on elevation_tin_clipped layer to open property window.
13.Click on the Style tab. Select Render type as Singleband pseudocolor. In the Generate new color map panel, select Spectral as
 color ramp and enter min and max values. Since we want to create a depth-map as opposed to a height-map, check the Invert box. 
This will assign blues to deep areas and reds to shallow areas. Click on Classify button.
14.Click on Transparency tab. We want to remove the black-pixels or unknown pixels from our output, so enter 0 as the Additional
 no data value. Click on Ok.
15.Now we have an elevation relief map for the lake generated from the individual depth readings. Let’s generate contours now.
 Click on raster  extraction  contours.
16.In the Contour dialog box, enter contours as the Output file for contour lines. We will generate contour lines at 5 feet intervals,
 so enter 5.00 as the Interval between contour lines. Check
the Attribute name box. Make sure that load into canvas when finished. Click on Ok.
17.The contour lines will be loaded as contours layer once the processing is finished. Double click on this layer to open property 
window or right click on contours and select properties.
18.Click on Labels tab. Check the Label this layer with box and select ELEV as the field. Select Curved as the Placement type and click on Ok.
19.We will see that each contour line will be appropriately labeled with the elevation along with the line.

